# A-Step-towards-Detection-of-COVID-19-from-chest-X-Ray-scans-using-deep-learning

The novel COVID-19 virus has spread across the world.  The virus has infected around 2 millionpeople as of today. Most countries are facing a shortage of testing kits and resource scarcity challengescaused by a rapid surge in COVID-19 cases.  In order to speed up the testing, scientists from allaround the world have attempted to develop innovative new methods for detecting COVID 19. Inthis paper,  we comprehensively evaluated the applicability of the recent top ten state-of-the-artDeep Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) for automatically detection COVID-19 infectionusing chest X-ray images. These models includes, EfficientNet and its variants [46] DenseNet [55],  MobileNet  [51],  Xception  [47],  InceptionV3  [52],  ResNet  [49],  VGG  and  its  variants  [51]  ,NASANetMobile [54] , InceptionResNetV2 [53] and NASANetLarge [54]. We show that our trainmodels have obtained outstanding results in the classifying the COVID-19 infected chest x-rays.In particular, our trained model MobileNet, EfficentNet, and InceptionV3 achieved a classificationaverage accuracies 100%, 100%, and 94% test set, for COVID-19 class classification, respectively,which is comparable to previous state-of-the-art models. Such results demonstrate how deep learningcan substantially help in the early detection of COVID-19 patients using X-rays scans. Moreover,it also provides an excellent example for other researchers interested in applying this method toreal-world problems.  Lastly, we believe it can be a beneficial tool for clinical practitioners andradiologists to speed up testing, detection, and follow-up of COVID-19 cases.
